1) What do you understand by RESTful Web Services?
 RESTful web services are services that follow REST architecture.
 REST stands for Representational State Transfer and uses HTTP protocol (web protocol) for implementation.
 These services are lightweight, provide maintainability, scalability, support communication among 
 multiple applications that are developed using different programming languages. 

2)2. Define Messaging in terms of RESTful web services.
The technique of sending a message from the REST client to the REST server in the form of an HTTP request 
and the server responding back with the response as HTTP Response is called Messaging.
The messages contained constitute the data and the metadata about the message.

3) Can you tell the disadvantages of RESTful web services?
The disadvantages are:
As the services follow the idea of statelessness, it is not possible to maintain sessions. (responsibility lies on the client-side to pass the session id)
less secure

4) What are the HTTP Methods?
GET: This is used for fetching details from the server and is basically a read-only operation.
POST: This method is used for the creation of new resources on the server.
PUT: This method is used to update the old/existing resource on the server or to replace the resource.
DELETE: This method is used to delete the resource on the server.
PATCH: This is used for modifying the resource on the server.


5. What are HTTP Status codes?
we use status code for provide information like success request , client side error , server side error 
we can define with number that start with 1,2,3,4,5.

1xx - represents informational responses
2xx - represents successful responses
3xx - represents redirects
4xx - represents client errors
5xx - represents server errors
Most commonly used status codes are:
200 - success/OK
201 - CREATED - used in POST or PUT methods.
304 - NOT MODIFIED - used in conditional GET requests to reduce the bandwidth use of the network. Here, the body of the response sent should be empty.
400 - BAD REQUEST - This can be due to validation errors or missing input data.
401- UNAUTHORIZED - This is returned when there is no valid authentication credentials sent along with the request.
403 - FORBIDDEN - sent when the user does not have access (or is forbidden) to the resource.
404 - NOT FOUND - Resource method is not available.
500 - INTERNAL SERVER ERROR - server threw some exceptions while running the method.
502 - BAD GATEWAY - Server was not able to get the response from another upstream server.


7. What is the concept of statelessness in REST?
The REST architecture is designed in such a way that the client state is not maintained on the server.
This is known as statelessness. 
The context is provided by the client to the server using which the server processes the client’s request. 
The session on the server is identified by the session identifier sent by the client.


9. What is URI?
Uniform Resource Identifier is the full form of URI which is used for identifying each resource of the REST architecture. URI is of the format:
<protocol>://<service-name>/<ResourceType>/<ResourceID>

10. What is a REST Resource?
Every content in the REST architecture is considered a resource. 
They can either be represented as text files, HTML pages, images, or any other dynamic data.


11. Advantage of REST Web-service usage.
Decoupling means that the client and server are independent. The client doesn't need to know the server's internal workings, and the server doesn’t need to know the client’s specifics.

Scalability: REST is stateless, meaning each request is independent, making it easy to scale and handle large amounts of traffic.

Flexibility: REST supports multiple data formats (like JSON, XML), allowing for easy integration with different platforms and technologies.

Performance: Because REST uses lightweight communication (especially JSON), it’s faster and more efficient compared to other protocols.